In this section,
we're going to take a look at how we can link a Node.js
container to a MongoDB container and the Docker technology
that makes this linking possible.
So I've already loaded up a Node.js project that hits MongoDB.
I'm just going to walk you through the fundamentals of what happens
here to show you that we are, indeed, going to be inserting data into
Mongo and then pulling that data back out.
So first off, I have a config folder,
and this just stores the connection string type of info, so I have the host
and the database. And you'll notice this name, mongodb.
Now, I didn't pull that out of thin air.
That's actually what we're going to be naming the MongoDB container.
So we'll come back to that in just a bit.
Now, we're also going to be calling a dbSeeder,
and that calls up into this dataSeeder, and you'll notice
that we have some Docker commands here.
Now,
this is just a custom object I made in Node.js. It just has some custom
properties that I'm going to insert. Could've picked anything.
But I'm going to insert a Docker command, a description, and then some
examples of using that command so we could kind of pretend this is like
a help database or something like that.
And then I'm going to save it here.
And then I'll also create a Docker command, this time ps,
and we'll run some examples of that.
So it's just some basic sample data that we're going to insert into
Mongo using the Node application that you see here.
Alright, so that's kind of the fundamentals of the app itself,
and it'll just write out those commands to the home page.
Now, the next thing I'm going to show you is this node.dockerfile.
The actual set of instructions that you see here shouldn't
surprise you. We're going to copy the source code into a folder on
the container, set that as the working directory, run npm install,
and then start up the server.
But you'll notice at the top here I have some instructions on
how to link everything up, because we want to link again Node.js
as a separate container to Mongo, which is its own container.
So the first thing we're going to do is we need to convert this
into an image, and so let's go ahead and do that.
I'm just going to copy this down. And we'll pull this up and
just paste that right in there and build it.
Now, this should be cached, so it should be pretty fast to do.
All right, so we're all done there.
And if we do docker images,
you'll notice that I have my custom image, I already have a node image,
and there's mongo.
So we're ready to go there.
Now, the next thing we're going to do is we're going to run the Mongo image,
but you'll notice that in the run, I'm running it first off in daemon mode,
so in a background mode, but I'm also giving it a name,
and we really haven't done that much up to this point.
So let's see what that does.
So I want to paste this down, and we'll get this mongo going.
All right, so let's run docker ps, and you'll notice that it's up and running,
but you'll notice the name here is now the name that I
chose, as you'll see right up here.
So the my‑mongodb, It could be useful in this case, if you just want to start
and stop the container and don't really want to use the ID that we have, but
it's also very useful as we want to link containers.
And that's where we're really going to use the name here.
So the next thing we're going to do, then, is we need to start up node as a
container, but we want to link it into this my‑mongodb.
So let's go ahead and paste this command in, and before we run it,
let's talk about it real quick.
So we'll do the standard docker run in daemon mode, external port of
3000, internal port of 3000 for the container.
But here's the magic. We're going to link to my‑mongodb,
which, of course,
is the name that we gave Mongo that you can see here,
and I'm going to give it an alias, though, in the node container of mongodb.
Now, remember, when it came to the connection string,
if you will, MongoDB was used as the host name,
not localhost or an IP in this case,
the actual name that was assigned to the container.
So that name now is really, really important.
Now we didn't have to alias it.
We could have just used this external name as well, but we're
going to go ahead and go with that here.
So let's start that up. We'll run docker ps, and now you can see that we have
two containers up and running that are hopefully linked here.
So let's run off to the browser, and I already have the IP address for
my Virtual Box machine and that port that you just saw, so let's hit
it. And it looks like it's running, but,
you know, we didn't get any data yet,
and that's expected because I didn't run the dbSeeder.
So I need to run this dbSeeder now in the node container because that's
not something I set up when the server.js fired up.
So, I kind of did that on purpose so I could show you
another Docker command that's very useful.
It's called docker exec.
This allows us to execute a command in a running container.
I need to know the container, though, so let's do docker ps.
Let's just go with d6 here, that would be a little easier,
so I'm going to say docker exec.
We want to execute this command in the d6 for the ID, and then I
want to run node dbSeeder.js, and I have that set up so that you
can run it directly as a module.
And that should now insert some data into this MongoDB
database, and there is the name of the database.
So the server is MongoDB, the database is funWithDocker.
All right, so we should have some data in there.
Let's run on back and refresh, and this will now hit it, and there we go.
So it looks like we now are able to pull that data that was inserted and
were able to render it using express in this case.
So, that's an example of some of the different commands
that you can actually run to, first off,
name a container,
then reference that name using ‑‑link in this case, give it an alias,
and then we can use that alias in the linked container, and that makes it really easy now for Node.js to call MongoDB.